Add tutorials overview and TOC (#2978)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/tutorials/index.mdx

---
title: Tutorials

> description: Browse tutorials on utility-scale workflows or Qiskit capabilities and learn how to use Qiskit to common use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Browse tutorials on utility-scale workflows or Qiskit capabilities, and learn how to use Qiskit for common use cases.
```

---

# Tutorials

> Use these tutorials to learn how to apply Qiskit to common quantum computing use cases. You can browse tutorials by workflow or capability in the left navigation bar. The section on workflows towards utility contains end-to-end examples of using the quantum computer to solve a real-world problem. We focus on examples of algorithms which are promising candidates for achieving computational advantage of a quantum computer versus a classical computer. The section on Qiskit capabilities contains examples of leveraging the latest and most advanced techniques present in Qiskit and its ecosystem to improve part or the whole of a particular workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use these tutorials to learn how to apply Qiskit to common quantum computing use cases. 
- The section on workflows toward utility contains end-to-end examples of using a quantum computer to solve real-world problems. These tutorials focus on algorithms that are promising candidates for achieving computational advantage by a quantum computer over a classical computer. 
- The section on Qiskit capabilities contains examples that use the latest and most advanced techniques in the Qiskit ecosystem to improve part or the whole of a particular workflow.
```

> ## Explore workflows towards utility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Explore workflows toward utility
```

> Tutorials in this section cover large scale demonstrations of quantum algorithms. These are classified into three categories: Verifiable sampling algorithms, Observable estimation and Fault tolerant algorithms. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tutorials in this section cover large scale demonstrations of quantum algorithms.
```

<details>
  <summary>**Verifiable sampling algorithms**</summary>

> The algorithms in this category focus on quantum circuits whose output distributions encode solutions to structured problems and whose output can be validated. Verifiability here refers to the ability to check consistency between measured data either through evaluating the chosen bitstring or knowledge that false positive are known to not occur. The tutorials highlight techniques where repeated sampling enables estimation of problem-specific quantities (e.g., cost function values or spectral weights). These methods are particularly relevant for optimization and simulation tasks with symmetries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The algorithms in this category focus on quantum circuits whose output distributions encode solutions to structured problems with verifiable output. Verifiability means that you can check the consistency between measured data, either through evaluating the chosen bitstring or by knowing that false positives do not occur. 

The tutorials highlight techniques where repeated sampling enables estimation of problem-specific quantities (for example, cost function values or spectral weights). These methods are particularly relevant for optimization and simulation tasks with symmetries.
```

* [Sample-based quantum diagonalization of a chemistry Hamiltonian](/docs/tutorials/sample-based-quantum-diagonalization)

* [Compute dissociation curves for strong coupling systems with QunaSys QSCI](/docs/tutorials/compute-dissociation-curves-for-strong-coupling-systems-with-quna-sys-qsci)

* [Quantum approximate optimization algorithm](/docs/tutorials/quantum-approximate-optimization-algorithm)

> * [Advanced Techniques for QAOA](/docs/tutorials/advanced-techniques-for-qaoa)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Advanced techniques for QAOA](/docs/tutorials/advanced-techniques-for-qaoa)
```

* [Pauli Correlation Encoding to reduce Maxcut requirements](/docs/tutorials/pauli-correlation-encoding-for-qaoa)

* [Higher-order binary optimization with Q-CTRL's Optimization Solver](/docs/tutorials/solve-higher-order-binary-optimization-problems-with-q-ctrls-optimization-solver)

</details>

<details>
  <summary>**Observable estimation**</summary>

> These tutorials focus on estimating physically meaningful quantities—such as energy or correlation values—by preparing quantum states and measuring observables. Techniques include both variational and trotterized circuit approaches that balance circuit expressiveness with circuit-depth efficiency. Emphasis in our development is placed on workflows that reduce quantum resource demands while maintaining accuracy, enabling practical estimation of observables in chemical and physical systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These tutorials focus on estimating physically meaningful quantities, such as energy or correlation values, by preparing quantum states and measuring observables. Techniques include both variational and Trotterized circuit approaches that balance circuit expressiveness with circuit-depth efficiency. Emphasis is placed on workflows that reduce quantum resource demands while maintaining accuracy, and enabling practical estimation of observables in chemical and physical systems.
```

* [Krylov quantum diagonalization of lattice Hamiltonians](/docs/tutorials/krylov-quantum-diagonalization)

* [Nishimori phase transition](/docs/tutorials/nishimori-phase-transition)

* [Dissociation PES curves with Qunova HiVQE](/docs/tutorials/qunova-hivqe)

* [Variational quantum eigensolver](/docs/tutorials/variational-quantum-eigensolver)

* [Ground state energy estimation of the Heisenberg chain with VQE](/docs/tutorials/spin-chain-vqe)

* [Quantum kernel training](/docs/tutorials/quantum-kernel-training)

* [CHSH inequality](/docs/tutorials/chsh-inequality)

</details>

<details>
  <summary>**Fault tolerant algorithms**</summary>

> This section features algorithms with well-defined theoretical guarantees that are designed to run on future error-corrected quantum hardware. The circuits or sampling overhead for these algorithms scale in a manner which is not depth-efficient and are thereby more likely to demonstrate quantum advantage when there exist a fault-tolerant quantum computer. Tutorials illustrate how these methods operate in idealized settings and have demonstration for small scale examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section features algorithms with well-defined theoretical guarantees that are designed to run on future error-corrected quantum hardware. The circuits or sampling overhead for these algorithms scale in a manner that is not depth-efficient and are thereby are more likely to demonstrate quantum advantage when fault-tolerant quantum computers exist. These tutorials illustrate how the methods operate in idealized settings and demonstrate small scale examples.
```

* [Grover's algorithm](/docs/tutorials/grovers-algorithm)

</details>

## Leverage Qiskit capabilities

This section introduces advanced capabilities within the Qiskit ecosystem that enhance performance, reliability, and speed when executing quantum algorithms.

<details>
  <summary>**Workload optimization**</summary>

> Workload optimization focuses on either efficient orchestration of classical and quantum resources or tailored methods for improving manipulating quantum circuits. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workload optimization focuses on either efficient orchestration of classical and quantum resources or tailored methods for improving quantum circuit manipulation. 
```

* [Qiskit AI-powered transpiler service introduction](/docs/tutorials/ai-transpiler-introduction)

> * [Transpilation Optimizations with SABRE](/docs/tutorials/transpilation-optimizations-with-sabre)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Transpilation optimizations with SABRE](/docs/tutorials/transpilation-optimizations-with-sabre)
```

* [Compare transpiler settings](/docs/tutorials/circuit-transpilation-settings)

* [Long-range entanglement with dynamic circuits](/docs/tutorials/long-range-entanglement)

</details>

<details>
  <summary>**Addons**</summary>

> Addons enable advanced circuit manipulation —such as cutting, backpropagating observables, or approximating circuits— that allow users to sidestep hardware limitations at the cost of increased classical compute overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addons enable advanced circuit manipulation, such as cutting, backpropagating observables, or approximating circuits, that allow users to sidestep hardware limitations at the cost of increased classical compute overhead.
```

* [Approximate quantum compilation for time evolution circuits](/docs/tutorials/approximate-quantum-compilation-for-time-evolution)

* [Operator backpropagation (OBP) for estimation of expectation values](/docs/tutorials/operator-back-propagation)

* [Wire cutting for expectation values estimation](/docs/tutorials/wire-cutting)

* [Circuit cutting for periodic boundary conditions](/docs/tutorials/periodic-boundary-conditions-with-circuit-cutting)

* [Circuit cutting for depth reduction](/docs/tutorials/depth-reduction-with-circuit-cutting)

</details>

<details>
  <summary>**Error mitigation**</summary>

> Error mitigation addresses the challenge of noise without full fault tolerance by recovering accurate expectation values through controlled circuit manipulation and post processing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Error mitigation addresses the challenge of noise without full fault tolerance by recovering accurate expectation values through controlled circuit manipulation and post-processing. 
```

---
title: Tutorials
description: Browse tutorials by tool or topic and learn how to apply Qiskit to common use cases.
---

# Tutorials

Use these tutorials to learn how to apply Qiskit to common quantum computing use cases. You can browse tutorials by topic in the left nav, or by the tools the tutorial uses in the section below

## Browse tutorials by tool

> Simple text to explain this tools-based schema

Author: Needs copy

* [Solve utility-scale quantum optimization problems](/tutorials/quantum-approximate-optimization-algorithm)

* [Advanced Techniques for QAOA](/tutorials/advanced-techniques-for-qaoa)

* [Solving Maxcut with Reduced Qubit Requirements Using Pauli Correlation Encoding](/tutorials/solving-maxcut-with-reduced-qubit-requirements-using-pauli-correlation-encoding)

* [Heisenberg chain](/tutorials/heisenberg-chain)

* [Variational quantum eigensolver](/tutorials/variational-quantum-eigensolver)

</details>

<details>
  <summary>**Functions**</summary>

* [Building workflows with the IBM Circuit function](/tutorials/building-workflows-with-the-ibm-circuit-function)

* [Compute dissociation PES curve for Li2S (20Q) and FeP-NO (44Q), with Qunova HiVQE](/tutorials/qunova-hivqe)

* [Compute dissociation curves for strong coupling systems with QunaSys QURI Chemistry](/tutorials/compute-dissociation-curves-for-strong-coupling-systems-with-quna-sys-qsci)

* [Solve higher-order binary optimization problems with Q-CTRL's Optimization Solver](/tutorials/solve-higher-order-binary-optimization-problems-with-q-ctrls-optimization-solver)

</details>

## Browse tutorials by topic

> Simple text to explain this tools-based schema

Author: Also here
